What did you do last week?

Learned about Supervised Learning with predictive models: Time series data, decomposition, ARIMA, classifying, feature selection and creation, aggregating models, validating models, etc. 

What do you plan to do this week?

This week I'm continuing with Data Science Foundations by learning about Generative Methods in Data Science.

Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs): algorithm that produces novel output based on experience with training data.  Most common approach is a Deconvolutional Neural Network. 

Discriminative Network: algorithm that attempts to distinguish generated output from nongenerated data. Usually a Convolutional Neural Network. 

The "competition" between these two networks allows the generator to get better at creating data that fools the discriminator. Conversely, the discriminator also gets better at spotting generated data. 

Use cases: upscaling images and video, creating images for fashion and design visualization, realistic animated movies, scientific simulations and molecular research. 

Problems: fake image, video, audio, text, and data. Fake social media profiles and posts. fake phone calls, text message, etc. actually fake news. So with great promise comes great risk. 

Reinforcement Learning: playing chess and go, self-driving cars, stock market trading, dosing for medication, dynamic treatment regimes, planning clinical trials, etc. 

Setup: give rules and constraints, discrete steps in time to measure what it's done and the reward function, Q.

Goals: create a policy map - take a particular action when in specific state. Exploration: trying lots of different behaviors to see how well they work. Exploitation: use things already learned to continue its progress.

SARSA: State, Action, Reward, State, Action - iterative algorithm used in Markov Decision process.

Initializing: can provide algorithm with specific examples; can give just the rules and value function.

Acting on Data Science

Interpretability: who makes decisions? who's using the results/insight?

Algorithms - recommendation system that automatically puts something in front of people; mortgage application system that processes immediately while users still on the website. Machines are ones making decisions; they don't need to understand what they're working with and can create complex models and implement them directly.

Humans - need to understand principles involved to reason from data to apply to new situations.

Some results easy to interpret; some, not so much. Interpretability is critical to tell story and make sense of your findings. 

Interpretable Methods - some algorithms easier to interpret: contingency tables, T-tests for A/B testing, correlations, linear regression, decision trees. some algorithms harder to interpret: regression with interactions, random forests (large collections of decision trees), support vector machines, neural networks. 

Black box - hard to know exactly how data is processed, hard to predict how the input data will combine for the output.

Glass Box - methods where you can see how data is processed, theoretically easy to predict outcomes from inputs. 

Actionable insights - data (and data science) is for doing. What motivated the project? what questions did you want answered? Focus on things that are controllable; be practical, thinking about ROI; build up using sequential steps. 

Recommendations for further study: programming in Python or R, learn to use Open data, learn how to build algorithms for Machine Learning and AI, data-driven decision making, business strategy, 

Conferences: strata data conference, ODSC, marketing analytics and data science, silicon slopes tech summit, etc. etc. 

Are there any impediments in your way?

No impediments. I got my big projects done for my other classes, so I can focus on this class without issue. 

Reflection on the process you used last week, how can you make the process work better?

I think the process is working pretty well so far. I plan to consolidate and reorganize my notes now that I'm at the end of this course, not only as a review, but as a way to make referencing more efficient.
